---
layout: post
category : blog
title : start Flask and create a simple project 
tags : [ Server , DensityServer , Agents ]
---

<a href = "API http://flask.flyzen.com/api/"> API is here </a>

###Part One : install flask and make it work on laptop.

####step 1.install falsk on mac

` sudo easy_install virtualenv`

or

` sudo pip install virtualenv`

virtualenv can separate different python projects from its Environment.


####step 2.cerate environment：

`mkdir myproject`

 `cd myproject`

` virtualenv env`

then it would come the information below.

"New python executable in env/bin/python"

"Installing setuptools............done."

####step 3.active its environment:

` . env/bin/activate`

take care about the dot and the space ,if this command can not be used , try to use `source`

####step 4.active Flask in your virtualenv:

`easy_install Flask`


----------------------------------------------


###Part Two : Start Flask project.

####step 5.write a file named "hello.py",with code below :

`from flask import Flask`

`app = Flask(__name__)`

`@app.route('/')`

`def hello_world():`

`    return "Hello World!"`

`if __name__ == '__main__':`

`    app.run() `

Then run `python hello.py`,we can see "Hello World!" in `http://127.0.0.1:5000/`

#####how it works?

`import Flask` tell us to create a WSGI program.

then `route` tell us which page will trigger this function `hello_world()`

we use `app.run()` to run the local server , `Ctrl+C` to stop.

if we want to interview this project from outside, use `app.run(host='0.0.0.0')`

####Some details:

#####details 1 : add `app.debug = True`,it will let us to debug the project from server . but please remember,

####we can not use `app.debug = True` under Production, cause this  allow user to  run his code in Production. 

#####details 2 : we can use variable to set the RUL 

`@app.route('/user/<username>')`

`def show_user_profile(username):`

`return username`

`@app.route('/post/<int:post_id>')`

`def show_post(post_id):`

`return post_id`

we can use `int`,`float`,`path` to limit the type of input.

#####details 3 : HTTP methods 

in route(), we can add `methods= ['get','post']

`@app.route('/login', methods=['GET', 'POST'])`

`def login():`

`    if request.method == 'POST':`

`        do_the_login()`

`    else:`

`        show_the_login_form()`

#####details 4 : static files 

create a folder /static , js or CSS can be stored here,if style.css under this folder,use `url_for('static', filename='style.css')` to interview this file.

#####details 5 : template

Flask use Jinja2 as render_templates, use `render_template()` to render templates,put the pages under `templates`.

`from flask import render_template`

`@app.route('/hello/')`

`@app.route('/hello/<name>')`

`def hello(name=None):`

`    return render_template('hello.html', name=name)  `

then Flask will find "hello.html" under `templates`

#####details 6 : files upload

remember set `enctype="multipart/form-data"` in the html form.

it will create a request object with its attribute `file`,and use `save()` to save.

and please never believe its "file_name" ,this name will be faked easily. so use `secure_filename()` to make it safe .

`from flask import request`

`from werkzeug import secure_filename`

`@app.route('/upload', methods=['GET', 'POST'])`

`def upload_file():

`    if request.method == 'POST':`

`        f = request.files['the_file']`

`        f.save('/var/www/uploads/' + secure_filename(f.filename))`

`... ...`

#####details 7 : redirect and ERROR

if we want to jump to another URL, use `redirect()`; if we want to interrupt a request and return flase info, use `abort()` 

`from flask import abort, redirect, url_for`

`@app.route('/')`

`def index():`

`    return redirect(url_for('login'))`

`@app.route('/login')`

`def login():`

`    abort(401)`

`    this_is_never_executed()`

#####details 8 : log

there is a class Logger,use like this :

`app.logger.debug('A value for debugging')`

`app.logger.warning('A warning occurred (%d apples)', 42)`

`app.logger.error('An error occurred')`



-------------------------------------------


###Part Three : create a project by flask

the project is <a href = "https://github.com/yiwinking/flask_project">here</a>

then we start it step by step.

###one : create folders for this project 

create  `/static` and `/templates` under `/flaskr`.
"static" is for user request, also we put CSS and JS here;"templates" for rendering templates, all the templates will be put here.

###two : deploy 

in order to create db information, create "schema.sql", <a href ="https://github.com/yiwinking/flask_project/blob/master/schema.sql"> Click here</a>.

###three : create a main module

create a file named "flaskr.py", and add 

`# all the imports`

`import sqlite3`

`from flask import Flask, request, session, g, redirect, url_for, \ abort, render_template, flash`

`# configuration`

`DATABASE = '/tmp/flaskr.db'`

`DEBUG = True`

`SECRET_KEY = 'development key'`

`USERNAME = 'admin'`

`PASSWORD = 'default' `

username is "admin" and password is "default".

then create app, in the same py file

`# create our  application`

`app = Flask(__name__)`

`app.config.from_object(__name__)`

of course , we need to link to the db, so also add 

`def connect_db():`

`    return sqlite3.connect(app.config['DATABASE'])`

at last , start server with 

`if __name__ == '__main__':`

`    app.run()`

###three : create db for app and link 

create db by 

`sqlite3 /tmp/flaskr.db < schema.sql`

then link by 

`@app.before_request`

`def before_request():`

`    g.db = connect_db()`


`@app.after_request`

`def after_request(response):`

`    g.db.close()`

`    return response`

"@app.before_request" can be called before rquest, and "@app.after_request" can be call after request.

###four : view functions

we need functions to show the views. here's the functions we want.

"show_entries()" for "/", to show index.

"add_entry()" for "/add", to add new archives.

"login()" for "/login", for user to login in .

"logout()" for "/logout", for user to logout.

so all the code is<a href = "https://github.com/yiwinking/flask_project/blob/master/flaskr.py"> here</a>.

###five : add templates.

templates inculdes "layout.html","show_entries.html","login.html"

please check <a href = "https://github.com/yiwinking/flask_project/tree/master/templates">here</a>.

###six : add CSS

add "style.css" under "static" , check <a href = "https://github.com/yiwinking/flask_project/tree/master/static"> here </a>.

###seven : start server

at last, start server with "python flaskr.py".






 
